# Hamilton-Songs-
Data
The data I gathered from the original and cut songs of “Hamilton” the musical. I analyzed the musical's songs regarding tempo, number of characters singing, and themes of love and war. Each unit of analysis was one song and 60 observations were collected. The sampling strategy I utilized was convenience sampling. I collected the data by analyzing the lyrics of each song to determine how the themes of love and war were present. I also took the mean beats per minute (BPM) of each song by matching the BPM to a metronome and averaging all the tempos. I also counted the number of characters singing in each song, and if the ensemble sang I counted them as one collective person.
Operationalization
The BPM of a song is operationalized through the tempo. The BPM describes the intensity of the song. As a general rule of thumb, the higher the BPM, generally the more intense and passionate the song is. This will quantify how intense the Hamilton album is as well as gauge the average BPM of each song. 
 This will give insight into how many songs in Hamilton focus on the theme of war. It will help visualize how prevalent the theme of war is in Hamilton the musical. This will tell how many songs in Hamilton focus on the theme of war. The themes of war are operationalized through a qualitative coding scheme scale from 1-4. 1 represents no theme of war, 2 represents when themes of war are mentioned a few times, 3 represents when themes of war are mentioned often, and 4 represents when themes of war are mentioned extremely often.
This will give insight into how many songs in Hamilton focus on the theme of love. It will help visualize how prevalent the theme of love is in Hamilton the musical. This will tell how many songs in Hamilton focus on the theme of love. The themes of love are operationalized through a qualitative coding scheme scale from 1-4. 1 represents no theme of love, 2 represents when themes of love are mentioned a few times, 3 represents when themes of love are mentioned often, and 4 represents when themes of love are mentioned extremely often.

